So what does mvc stand for or what is it?
It's all about a separation of concerns,
so making sure that different parts of your code do different things and you clearly know which part
is responsible for what. MVC stands for model view controller
so we work with models, views and controllers
and actually for example views, that is something you already know, we already got views in our
project, right.
Models are basically objects or is a part of your code that is responsible for representing your data
in your code and allowing you to work with your data,
so things like saving data, fetching data to or from a file or even if it's just in memory as we're currently
doing it,
this should be handled by models.
The views are responsible for what the user sees in the end,
they are responsible for rendering the right content in our html documents and sending that back
to the user,
so they are decoupled from your application code and are just having some light or minor integrations
regarding the data we inject into our templating engine to generate these views. And the controllers
are now the connection point between the models and your views
because since the views shouldn't care about the application logic and the models do care about how
to save and fetch data and so on, the controllers are the thing working with the models, saving that data
or triggering that save process and so on
and also the part where they then pass that data that was fetched to your views for example.
So the controller is the middleman, it contains the in-between logic.
Now in case you're also wondering how routes fit into this picture,
well routes are basically the things which define upon which path for which http method which controller
code should execute
and as I just said,
the controller is then the thing defining with which model to work and which view to render.
This is the pattern
and in an app with express or built with express as we are doing it which heavily relies on this middleware
concept,
the controllers are also kind of split up across middleware functions or some of the logic might be separated
and moved into another middleware function but we'll see all of that and we'll get there step by
step.
For now, let's simply move back to our project and implement an mvc pattern there.